HAYES So in this video we're going to go ahead and recap on some of the knowledge you've already gone
through just to solidify it.
And also filling in the background colour.
So a few things that will help speed up your work flow.
So let's go ahead.
First of all creating a new image.
Remember there are short cut keys.
You don't have to use them.
Some people prefer them.
Some people do not.
Some people don't have the right keys on the keyboard in some particular cases with shortcuts as you'll
see in AIF potentially in a few moments.
So let's go ahead and create a new image this time because crimpers opened up a fresh it's not remembered
the previous state of eight by eight some going to have to type that in.
And of course zoom in and I'm going to use the fill screen with controls shift and J.
It's filled in the screen we need the pencil tool so let's go ahead and select that.
And we got the foreground colour and background colour as black and white.
So that's all good.
And we need the size the size doesn't need to be 20 needs to be one.
And we can see that it's one pixel each and we can start colouring in.
I call it colouring and it's just really blacking in and it anyway.
So say you've made a drawing like this and it's just wrong you want to reset everything.
One of the tools in your arsenal of course is pressing the x key and switching to the background colour.
And in this case because the background colour is white we can use it to kind of erase what was there
previously.
Now this would be a real pain if you had to do the entire lot or certainly an image much larger.
So is there a way we can go ahead and clear everything.
Yes there is and there's also a way that we can fill with just the foreground or background colour.
So there's lots of options.
Let's do the clearing everything to the background colour first.
Now do notice that I've got the background colour set to black.
Which is fine when I go back clear it down.
It will go back to the background colour which is black.
So we go to edit and down here there are a couple of options clear fill with foreground colour and fill
with background colour.
Now callier is the one that you might not be able to do on certain machines especially laptops.
I know a couple of laptops I've used in the past don't actually have a delete key.
I'm not talking about the backspace key but the one actually has the e l written on it.
That is the delete key.
If I go ahead and select it in the menu here we can see that it fills in black.
If I press X to switch back the foreground and background colours Now the background colour is white
and I press delete on the keyboard.
It goes white as expected.
Now this is ever so slightly different than how it would behave on other layers.
Now we have not discussed layers yet and were not going to look at them in this particular section.
However if you glance over to the right hand side of my screen we will see a tab called layers and we
will see it says background on it.
So when you press the delete key or go to Edit clear on any other layer it will actually clear everything
it won't just fill it in with the background or foreground colour.
So in that case you would have to use either control plus the full stop or the period key or control
and the comma key.
As we can see that and if I hover over our canvas that's the sort of digital paper that we're working
with here and press control and comma.
It will fill it in with the foreground colour and control and full stop or period.
We'll fill it in with the background colour.
So there's lots of options there.
As you're working to be able to flip and just remove everything you've been working on and start again.
Occasionally I do dig myself in a hole and just end up manually deleting it.
Or maybe I'm just tweaking something and I just don't like it so I'll just scribble out the rest.
That is absolutely fine.
8 by 8 but it was much larger I would stick to the other tools to speed up my workflow.
Now finally I've mentioned it before.
It's a happy accident but every take a glance at the top of our canvas.
We have a little tab you don't see anything at the moment cause I haven't drawn anything.
However if I draw something on there we can see that is reflected up in that tab and that's useful for
keeping an eye on what you're doing as well as being zoomed in.
It's great to zoom out and zoom back in.
We don't have to do that in this case because of his happy accident that we can have a good appreciation
of what that thumb now what the icon is going to be looking like when it's smaller as well as it when
it zoomed in.
What are we zoomed in at on my particular screen.
Ten thousand five hundred and thirteen percent which is quite zoomed in.
Now we're armed with this extra knowledge.
It's time for another challenge where we're going to go ahead and tell a story.
And of course that's where these little thumbnails on the tabs as you create new pictures is going to
help somewhat.
Okay so as already hinted we are going to tell a short story so we're going to create three 8 by 8 images
and once again were only going to use the pencil tool so we get that clear distinction between the pixels
themselves and of course because we're using the pencil tool at the moment with all the default settings
it's going to either be black or white depending on what setting we've picked the foreground and background
colours.
Now try describing a person loves bowling.
And if you are struggling with any of these I would really encourage you to remember your reference
images now reference images are used in art all the time.
Some people say it is cheating or a plague even as far as plagiarism but it really isn't.
If you're using So if you're truly using something as a reference image it means your referring to it
to help out your work.
If I was to go off and draw an elephant for instance I would not try and do it from what's in my head.
I'd go find a picture of an elephant as a starting point.
Further down the line I might go back to what's in my head after I really learnt how that object or
animal or whatever you're doing really looks like.
So go ahead pause a video and try describing using these icons were creating person loves bowling.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and in a short story using 8 by 8 images.
Let's try and describe a person loves bowling.
Okay so before I get into the nitty gritty of creating eight by eight I can't I just had a quick refresher
by going on google and simply typing in some key words person icons silhouette or person.
Like an outline just get an idea in my head about what I what I really want to do.
And as you can see there's an absolute ton of options that you've got here.
And of course all of these are quite high resolution.
We are only dealing with 8 by 8 pixels.
So it needs to be relatively simple.
And in this case I really like this guy on the right who is walking again to the right.
I quite like that and that's the one I'm going to be modelling as I'm going through in GIMP.
Okay so in front of us we have my squiggle that I did earlier and I'm going to use that shortcut key
we've just learned which is control and full stop or period to make everything white.
I like doing that rather than just hitting the delete key because you're you're really telling Gimp
I want it to be white.
Whereas if you're doing celek sorry Ed it's clear you're really saying I want it to be cleared and that
is ever so slightly different.
I prefer to be exact in my method and say I want it to be the background colour.
In this case it's white so we've got a person walking so we need a head.
So go ahead and stick your head and neck which was fortunate.
And we go down and we've got one leg forward and one leg back.
Will this work at all.
This one kind of comes down and this one goes out forward.
It's kind of working.
And again it doesn't have to be perfect at this point.
Is there anything else we can do to make this better.
Wow.
How about making the head a bit larger.
I don't know whether this will work or not but it's certainly worth trying.
Looks like it does look more like a person now.
That's like a person with no chins.
Perhaps if I get rid of that an add.
Oh dear.
It's challenging it really is when you're confined but it really makes you think about what you're trying
to achieve.
And again at the moment I'm not too convinced by looking at the larger version.
However looking at the smaller version I'm quite happy or how that actually looks.
So I'll just stick with that for my person and I'm going to go away now and produce loves and bowling.
So let's go.
And I'll see you guys back in a few moments.
Okay and welcome back.
So I have been busy beavering away with these pixels here and so I've got a person for love.
I've gone for a heart.
Who would have guessed.
I suspect that many of you did too.
Bolling Well I've I thought about pins and I thought Now I like the bowling ball.
And so I've done the circle that we saw with the smiley face earlier.
And but this time I've got the three dots in there.
Now this does rely on a bit of context to recognize what it is.
And we all know that we're thinking about someone loving bowling.
And if you didn't know that's one of the dangers of creating something like this is that you may think
that this person is in love and they're going it might be as a smiley where the person is just pouting
their lips or just wondering or pondering the mysteries of the universe.
There could be lots of interpretation and to get into this.
And fundamentally this is one of the limitations that you start approaching when you're dealing with
just black and white images.
You can do an outline you can do a silhouette.
But when it starts coming to the detail some of it will obviously get lost.
And if you were doing let's say a bitter fruit if I just drew a circle and didn't colour it a green
or red or any other colour orange you wouldn't know if it's an orange or an apple or tomato or what
ever it is important to.
Try to avoid contexts where you can.
But in this case I like the bowling ball.
I'm going to leave it like that.
And those are my three icons.
All done.
How did you guys get on.
I hope you really enjoyed this.
I certainly have.
It's really invigorating being confined to such a small space really got me thinking about where those
pixels are going.
And each one of them is really important and I will see you guys in the next lecture.